README.md, before:

# `nrf-softdevice`

Rust bindings for Nordic Semiconductor nRF series SoftDevices.

## High-level bindings

The `nrf-softdevice` crate contains high-level easy-to-use Rust async/await bindings for the Softdevice.

Working:

- Safe interrupt management
- Async flash API
- Bluetooth central (scanning and connecting)
- Bluetooth peripheral (advertising, connectable-only for now)
- GATT client
- GATT server
- L2CAP Connection-Oriented channels
- Data length extension
- ATT MTU extension
- Get/set own BLE address

To use it you must specify the following Cargo features:

- exactly one softdevice model, for example feature `s140`.
- exactly one supported nRF chip model, for example feature `nrf52840`.

The following softdevices are supported.

- S112 (peripheral only)
- S113 (peripheral only)
- S122 (central only)
- S132 (central and peripheral)
- S140 v7.x.x (central and peripheral)

The following nRF chips are supported

- nRF52810
- nRF52832
- nRF52833
- nRF52840

Some softdevices support only some chips, check Nordic's documentation for details.

## Running examples

Instructions for S140 and nrf52840-dk. You may have to adjust accordingly.

Flashing the softdevice is required. It is NOT part of the built binary. You only need to do it once at the beginning, or after doing full chip erases.

- Download SoftDevice S140 from Nordic's website [here](https://www.nordicsemi.com/Software-and-tools/Software/S140/Download). Supported versions are 7.x.x
- Unzip
- `nrfjprog --family NRF52 --chiperase --verify --program s140_nrf52_7.0.1_softdevice.hex`

To run an example, simply use `cargo run`:

- `cargo run --bin ble_bas_peripheral`

## Low-level raw bindings

The `nrf-softdevice-s1xx` crates contain low-level bindings, matching 1-1 with the softdevice C headers.

They are generated with `bindgen`, with extra post-processing to correctly generate the `svc`-based softdevice calls.

Generated code consists of inline functions using inline ASM, ensuring the lowest possible
overhead. Most of the times you'll see them inlined as a single `svc` instruction in the
calling function. Here is an example:

```rust
#[inline(always)]
pub unsafe fn sd_ble_gap_connect(
      p_peer_addr: *const ble_gap_addr_t,
      p_scan_params: *const ble_gap_scan_params_t,
      p_conn_params: *const ble_gap_conn_params_t,
      conn_cfg_tag: u8,
) -> u32 {
    let ret: u32;
    asm!("svc 140",
        inout("r0") p_peer_addr => res,
        inout("r1") p_scan_params => _,
        inout("r2") p_conn_params => _,
        inout("r3") conn_cfg_tag => _,
        lateout("r12") _,
    );
    ret
}
```

### Generating

The bindings are generated from the headers with the `gen.sh` script.

## License

This repo includes the softdevice headers, which are licensed under [Nordic's proprietary license](LICENSE-NORDIC).
Generated `binding.rs` files are a derived work of the headers, so they are also subject to Nordic's license.

The high level bindings ([nrf-softdevice](nrf-softdevice)) and the generator
code ([nrf-softdevice-gen](nrf-softdevice-gen)) are licensed under either of

- Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or
  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
- MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your option.

Commit message:

readme: link cargo flash and probe-run

README.md, after:

# `nrf-softdevice`

Rust bindings for Nordic Semiconductor nRF series SoftDevices.

## High-level bindings

The `nrf-softdevice` crate contains high-level easy-to-use Rust async/await bindings for the Softdevice.

Working:

- Safe interrupt management
- Async flash API
- Bluetooth central (scanning and connecting)
- Bluetooth peripheral (advertising, connectable-only for now)
- GATT client
- GATT server
- L2CAP Connection-Oriented channels
- Data length extension
- ATT MTU extension
- Get/set own BLE address

To use it you must specify the following Cargo features:

- exactly one softdevice model, for example feature `s140`.
- exactly one supported nRF chip model, for example feature `nrf52840`.

The following softdevices are supported.

- S112 (peripheral only)
- S113 (peripheral only)
- S122 (central only)
- S132 (central and peripheral)
- S140 v7.x.x (central and peripheral)

The following nRF chips are supported

- nRF52810
- nRF52832
- nRF52833
- nRF52840

Some softdevices support only some chips, check Nordic's documentation for details.

## Installing Dependencies

This repo expects [cargo-flash](https://github.com/probe-rs/cargo-flash) and [probe-run](https://github.com/knurling-rs/probe-run) to be installed (don't forget their libusb dependency)

Instructions for S140 and nrf52840-dk. You may have to adjust accordingly.

Flashing the softdevice is required. It is NOT part of the built binary. You only need to do it once at the beginning, or after doing full chip erases.

- Download SoftDevice S140 from Nordic's website [here](https://www.nordicsemi.com/Software-and-tools/Software/S140/Download). Supported versions are 7.x.x
- Unzip
- `cargo flash --hex s140_nrf52_7.0.1_softdevice.hex`

## Running examples

To run an example, simply use `cargo run`:

- `cargo run --bin ble_bas_peripheral`

## Low-level raw bindings

The `nrf-softdevice-s1xx` crates contain low-level bindings, matching 1-1 with the softdevice C headers.

They are generated with `bindgen`, with extra post-processing to correctly generate the `svc`-based softdevice calls.

Generated code consists of inline functions using inline ASM, ensuring the lowest possible
overhead. Most of the times you'll see them inlined as a single `svc` instruction in the
calling function. Here is an example:

```rust
#[inline(always)]
pub unsafe fn sd_ble_gap_connect(
      p_peer_addr: *const ble_gap_addr_t,
      p_scan_params: *const ble_gap_scan_params_t,
      p_conn_params: *const ble_gap_conn_params_t,
      conn_cfg_tag: u8,
) -> u32 {
    let ret: u32;
    asm!("svc 140",
        inout("r0") p_peer_addr => res,
        inout("r1") p_scan_params => _,
        inout("r2") p_conn_params => _,
        inout("r3") conn_cfg_tag => _,
        lateout("r12") _,
    );
    ret
}
```

### Generating

The bindings are generated from the headers with the `gen.sh` script.

## License

This repo includes the softdevice headers, which are licensed under [Nordic's proprietary license](LICENSE-NORDIC).
Generated `binding.rs` files are a derived work of the headers, so they are also subject to Nordic's license.

The high level bindings ([nrf-softdevice](nrf-softdevice)) and the generator
code ([nrf-softdevice-gen](nrf-softdevice-gen)) are licensed under either of

- Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or
  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
- MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your option.
